Update TRG proposal and approval process (#871)
eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io: docs/release.md

# Release Guidelines

Welcome to Eclipse Tractus-X Release Guidelines, known as TRGs. With Release Guidelines, we are defining quality
criteria for our repositories, products and artifacts in general. TRGs are numbered and grouped into sections, to
provide an easy-to-use overview. The git history of the TRGs can be use to browse changes made throughout the project

> history. You can also conduct the [TRG Changelog](release/trg-0) to see when new TRGs have been added.

Reviewer: I would reframe it a bit:

```suggestion
history. You can also check the [TRG Changelog](release/trg-0) to get better view on history of new/changed/deprecated TRGs.
```

Author: [7632dba](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/871/commits/7632dba036160282c9455be557dc103ef7019e79)

## Process

The process of introducing or altering a TRG is straight-forward. It consists of the following phases and events:

1. A proposal is created.
2. The proposal is improved by providing feedback
3. The committer group is deciding to accept or deny the proposed changes

More details in the following sections

### Proposal

A new TRG, or a change to an existing one is proposed by raising a PR. This can be done by any contributor or committer.
The PR is raised against the `main` branch
of [eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/).
Changes can be done by directly updating the existing Markdown files. New TRGs should already be put to a matching
section. In case a new TRG does not fit do an existing section, a new section can be proposed or asked for by reviewers.

As soon as a proposal is ready for committer review, it has to be announced
via [Tractus-X mailing list](https://accounts.eclipse.org/mailing-list/tractusx-dev). Additionally, the committer group

> is mentioned directly on the PR by tagging `@automotive-tractusx-committers`.

Author: Oh good catch. Saw that, when I tried to mention the team in the PR description, but forgot to fix it in the text

### Review

Feedback to announced proposals is welcome by everybody. It should be provided by using the review functionality of
GitHub. Reviews are especially needed from Tractus-X committers, since they are the ones who are accepting or dropping
proposals.

During review, the following things could be paid special attention to:

- Does the TRG focus on a single topic? If not, consider splitting to multiple TRGs
- Is it clear, how to comply with the TRG, or is there a lot of room for interpretation?

> - Would it be a lot of effort to comply with the TRG. Consider introducing a "mandatory from" date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Would it be a lot of effort to comply with the TRG? Consider introducing a "mandatory from" date.
```

Author: Also fixed punctuation on another bullet point with [c21e5c8](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/871/commits/c21e5c88f059418e7dd7cfa3fcedcc4fbfc79514)

### Accept / Drop

A new TRG, or changes to an existing TRG are __accepted__, if all the following is true:

- at least 7 committers did approve the change

> - the proposal PR is open for at least 2 weeks, to give everyone a fair amount of time to provide feedback or request

Reviewer: The case which interests me is when the TRG PR doesn't get much attention from committers and doesn't get enouch approvals within 2 weeks, as per listed requirements does that get dropped? I think it might be a useful to keep traction, reminder of open TRG PRs in the Committers meeting.

Author: Yes that is definitely an interesting case and unfortunately the most common one, at least on the recent TRGs. 
I was not yet sure, how to state that in our process. 
You could say, that dropping is actually the right thing to do, since there does not seem to be a lot of interest across the committer group to align on such a topic. 
We could also think about "reminders", that it is a committer duty to vote on project rules, just like it is for committer elections. Just not sure, what we should do, if colleagues are constantly skipping the vote.

Reviewer 2: As shortly discussed in our sync today:

I think it should be feasable for the project leads to still allow a TRG if there is no Veto. It should also be later on the responsible of the project lead to inform/warn committers that they have a duty and remove them later on if they don't react/act on TRGs or other things in the community.

Nonetheless if there is no real veto a TRG with small activty should be allowed as there are often enough approaches which need to be aligned

Author: I would like to hear more opinions on that. From my point of view, the rules are still made and discussed by the committer group. Low activity should result in a reminder to the committer group of their duties instead of "just waving through" as PL. 
Taking this to the committer office hour

  changes
- All requested changes are addressed. Not necessarily every requested change has to be implemented, if there is a
  consensus in the committer round, that the original proposal is good enough.

If the mentioned criteria is met, the PR is merged and the release guideline is mandatory for all Tractus-X products and
repositories. There might be cases, where complying with a new or changed release guideline takes considerable effort,

> so that proper planning should be done. In these cases, a "mandatory from" date should be discussed in the review phase

Reviewer 3: I don't agree with a default period of 1 month. In such cases, it needs to be possible to plan and prioritize the implementation of the TRG in the next open planning (open plannings occur 4 time/year). If a product increment is already planned out, it's simply not possible to take up such additional effort. Therefore, the TRG needs to be brought to the next open planning, to be implemented then in the next product increment.

> so that proper planning should be done. In these cases, a "mandatory from" date should be discussed in the review phase

Author: Hi @evegufy and @tomaszbarwicki!
Given both your feedback, I'm not sure if the changes I made are good enough, or if we should elaborate on that. There is also a short bullet point with a guiding question in the "Review" section, that is already mentioning the "mandatory from" date

> Would it be a lot of effort to comply with the TRG? Consider introducing a "mandatory from" date.

> so that proper planning should be done. In these cases, a "mandatory from" date should be discussed in the review phase

Reviewer 3: Hi @SebastianBezold I think if it remains at it currently is written, it's fine.

> so that proper planning should be done. In these cases, a "mandatory from" date should be discussed in the review phase

Reviewer: @evegufy my proposal was to set a default period for each new TRG, 1 month was just example, can be 3 months as well if that helps with open planning schedule. The point was to cut sometimes unneccessary long lasting discussions on the complexity.

# Release Guidelines

Welcome to Eclipse Tractus-X Release Guidelines, known as TRGs. With Release Guidelines, we are defining quality
criteria for our repositories, products and artifacts in general. TRGs are numbered and grouped into sections, to
provide an easy-to-use overview. The git history of the TRGs can be used to browse changes made throughout the project
history. You can also check the [TRG Changelog](release/trg-0) to get a better view on the history of
new/changed/deprecated TRGs.

## Process

The process of introducing or altering a TRG is straight-forward. It consists of the following phases and events:

> 1. A proposal is created.

Reviewer 2: The dot!! the dot!1 pls remove that dot

Author: [d5fcef5](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/pull/871/commits/d5fcef5b284b43a5902d914586024321cfe2fe4d)

2. The proposal is improved by providing feedback
3. The committer group is deciding to accept or deny the proposed changes

More details in the following sections

### Proposal

A new TRG, or a change to an existing one is proposed by raising a PR. This can be done by any contributor or committer.
The PR is raised against the `main` branch
of [eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/eclipse-tractusx.github.io/).
Changes can be done by directly updating the existing Markdown files. New TRGs should already be put to a matching

> section. In case a new TRG does not fit do an existing section, a new section can be proposed or asked for by reviewers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
section. In case a new TRG does not fit into an existing section, a new section can be proposed or asked for by reviewers.
```

  changes
- All requested changes are addressed. Not necessarily every requested change has to be implemented, if there is a
  consensus in the committer round, that the original proposal is good enough.

If the mentioned criteria is met, the PR is merged and the release guideline is mandatory for all Tractus-X products and
repositories. There might be cases, where complying with a new or changed release guideline takes considerable effort,
so that proper planning should be done. In these cases, a "mandatory from" date should be discussed in the review phase
and the actual date highlighted at the beginning of the TRG.

A release guideline proposal is __dropped__, if there are too many changes requested and a consensus cannot be found
across the committer group on how to alter the proposal to an acceptable state. Dropped, or rejected release guideline
proposals are documented by listing the PR and a short description of the proposed change
in [Changelog & Drafts](release/trg-0/trg-0.md).

### Deprecating TRGs

Proposals to deprecate existing TRGs are also introduced via PR. To keep the list of TRGs small and easy to read,

> deprecating TRGs is done by simply deleting it and mention the deleting in [Changelog & Drafts](release/trg-0/trg-0.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
deprecating TRGs is done by simply deleting them and mentioning the deletion in [Changelog & Drafts](release/trg-0/trg-0.md).
```
